# proteolizard-algorithm
### A collection of algorithms and tooling to process timsTOF ion-mobility mass-spectrometry raw-data

## Context
This repository is part of the `proteolizard` project, which revolves around a free and open-source solution 
for raw-data access, algorithms and raw-data visualization of mass spectrometry data generated with 
the bruker timsTOF device.

Since we are a relatively small team developing this, we decided to keep things loosely coupled. 
This means that 

* **data access**: [`proteolizard-data`](https://github.com/theGreatHerrLebert/proteolizard-data)
* **algorithms**: [`proteolizard-algorithm`](https://github.com/theGreatHerrLebert/proteolizard-algorithm) 
* **visualization**: [`proteolizard-vis`](https://github.com/theGreatHerrLebert/proteolizard-vis) 

are made available at different repositories. This makes it easier for us to develop all pieces independently.
We try to keep dependencies as small as possible, which should allow you to exchange parts of your 
custom pipelines against other data-access backends such as 
[`timspy`](https://github.com/MatteoLacki/timspy) or 
[`alphatims`](https://github.com/MannLabs/alphatims).

Development to achieve this is still ongoing. If you experience weird behaviour, bugs or errors please let us
know!


## Why proteolizard-algorithm?
`proteolizard-algorithm` provides you with algorithms and tools that are tailored to deal with the huge 
amounts of raw-data generated by liquid chromatography coupled ion-mobility tandem mass spectrometry (LC-IMS-MS-MS).
The additional recording of ion-mobility adds another dimension to experiments while 
data-sparsity increases as well. This makes a lot of traditional approaches used for LC-MS-MS processing either 
too slow or their design unsuited for these datasets. Our goal is to make use of ideas developed in other disciplines
in data science that have to deal with related problems and translate them to our data. We especially want to make use
of modern hardware such as multi-core/multi-threading and GPU parallelization. 

## Navigation
* [**Build and install proteolizard-algorithm**](#build-and-install-proteolizard-algorithm)
* [**Locality Sensitive Hashing (LSH)**](#locality-sensitive-hashing-(lsh))
* [**Clustering**](#clustering)
* [**Supervised (Deep) Learning**](#supervised-(deep)-learning)

---
### Build and install proteolizard-algorithm
Right now, it's buggy and hard.

---
### Locality Sensitive Hashing (LSH)
DUMMY

---
### Clustering
DUMMY

---
### Supervised (Deep) Learning
DUMMY